Added feature selection entry (#5776)
Codecademy/docs: content/sklearn/concepts/feature-selection/feature-selection.md

---
Title: 'Feature Selection'
Description: 'Feature selection techniques in sklearn help identify the most relevant features in a dataset, improving model performance and reducing overfitting.'
Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Machine Learning'
Tags:
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'Scikit-learn'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> **Feature Selection** is a critical step in machine learning pipelines that focuses on identifying the most significant features in a dataset. By removing irrelevant or redundant features, feature selection improves model performance, reduces overfitting, and decreases computation time. [Sklearn](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sklearn) offers a variety of methods for feature selection, including statistical tests, model-based selection, and iterative approaches.

Reviewer: These sentences are repetitive and slightly verbose. They can be rewritten as follows:

```suggestion
**Feature Selection** is a critical step in machine learning that helps identify a dataset's most relevant features, improving model performance, reducing overfitting, and decreasing computation time. 

[Sklearn](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sklearn) offers various methods for feature selection, including statistical tests, model-based selection, and iterative approaches.
```

## Types of Feature Selection in Sklearn

> 1. Variance Threshold
> - A simple baseline technique that removes features with variance below a predefined threshold.
> - Features with very low variance across samples typically contribute little to the predictive power of the model.

Reviewer: We can format these as nested lists, which will make it more readable, and use bold for the feature name as follows:

```suggestion
1. **Variance Threshold**
   - A simple baseline technique that removes features with variance below a predefined threshold.
   - Features with very low variance across samples typically contribute little to the predictive power of the model.
```

> 2.  Univariate Feature Selection
> - Selects features based on univariate statistical tests.
> - Commonly used methods include `SelectKBest` and `SelectPercentile`.
> - Example tests:
>   - `f_classif`: For classification tasks, calculates the ANOVA F-value.
>   - `chi2`: For non-negative feature values in classification.
>   - `mutual_info_classif`: Captures non-linear dependencies for classification.

Reviewer: Similar changes to make it a nested list of items:

```suggestion
2.  **Univariate Feature Selection**
    - Selects features based on univariate statistical tests.
    - Commonly used methods include `SelectKBest` and `SelectPercentile`.
    - Example tests:
        - `f_classif`: For classification tasks, calculates the ANOVA F-value.
        - `chi2`: For non-negative feature values in classification.
        - `mutual_info_classif`: Captures non-linear dependencies for classification.
```

> 3. Recursive Feature Elimination (RFE)
> - Iteratively fits a model and removes the least important features, refining the subset with each iteration.
> - Works best with models that provide feature importance, such as linear models or tree-based algorithms.

Reviewer: Similar changes to make it a nested list of items:

```suggestion
3. **Recursive Feature Elimination (RFE)**
    - Iteratively fits a model and removes the least important features, refining the subset with each iteration.
    - Works best with models that provide feature importance, such as linear models or tree-based algorithms.
```

> 4. Sequential Feature Selection (SFS)
> - Sequentially adds or removes features to optimize a performance metric (e.g., accuracy).
> - Two approaches:
>   - **Forward Selection**: Starts with no features, adding one at a time.
>   - **Backward Elimination**: Starts with all features, removing one at a time.

Reviewer: Similar changes to make it a nested list of items:

```suggestion
4. **Sequential Feature Selection (SFS)**
    - Sequentially adds or removes features to optimize a performance metric (e.g., accuracy).
    - Two approaches:
        - **Forward Selection**: Starts with no features, adding one at a time.
        - **Backward Elimination**: Starts with all features, removing one at a time.
```

Reviewer: Here, the context for when to use forward or backward approaches is missing. We should add something like this -

```
Forward selection is useful when starting with a sparse model, while backward elimination is preferred for initially complex models.
```

 
## Advantages of Feature Selection:
- Enhances model accuracy and efficiency.
- Reduces overfitting by removing irrelevant features.
- Simplifies model interpretability.

## Syntax

> Here’s an example syntax using `SelectKBest` for univariate selection:

Reviewer: This can be rewritten for better readability as follows:

```suggestion
Below is an example of using `SelectKBest` for univariate feature selection:
```

```pseudo
from sklearn.feature_selection import SelectKBest, f_classif

> # Applying SelectKBest
> selector = SelectKBest(score_func=f_classif, k=5)
> X_new = selector.fit_transform(X, y)

Reviewer: In syntax, we should explain if any value is used. For ex, why is 5 used here? 

```suggestion
# Applying SelectKBest to select the top 5 features with the highest ANOVA F-values
selector = SelectKBest(score_func=f_classif, k=5)
X_new = selector.fit_transform(X, y)
```

# Selected feature indices
selected_features = selector.get_support(indices=True)
print("Selected Features:", selected_features)
```

## Example

Below is a complete example showcasing `SelectFromModel` with Lasso regression for feature selection:

```py
from sklearn.datasets import make_regression
from sklearn.linear_model import Lasso
from sklearn.feature_selection import SelectFromModel
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split

# Generating a synthetic regression dataset
X, y = make_regression(n_samples=100, n_features=10, noise=10, random_state=42)

# Splitting data into training and testing sets
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.3, random_state=42)

# Fitting Lasso regression

> model = Lasso(alpha=0.1).fit(X_train, y_train)

Reviewer: In the provided Lasso regression example, the parameter `alpha=0.1` is too small, which results in minimal regularization which might confuse learners here. 

When the regularization weakens, the Lasso model does not shrink any coefficients to zero, meaning all features are retained. This defeats the purpose of using Lasso for feature selection, as the goal is to identify and retain only the most important features while eliminating the less significant ones.

To demonstrate effective feature selection, increase the value of alpha to introduce stronger regularization. For example:

```py
# Fitting Lasso regression with stronger regularization
model = Lasso(alpha=0.5).fit(X_train, y_train)

# Using SelectFromModel for feature selection
selector = SelectFromModel(model, prefit=True)
X_train_selected = selector.transform(X_train)
X_test_selected = selector.transform(X_test)

# Selected feature indices
selected_features = selector.get_support(indices=True)
print("Selected Features:", selected_features)
```

Example Output (with `alpha=0.5`):

```shell
Selected Features: [0 2 3 7]
```

> # Using SelectFromModel for feature selection
> selector = SelectFromModel(model, prefit=True)

Reviewer: The term `prefit=True` in `SelectFromModel` might be unclear to beginners. Add a comment explaining its use:

```suggestion
# Use the pre-trained Lasso model for feature selection
selector = SelectFromModel(model, prefit=True)
```

X_train_selected = selector.transform(X_train)
X_test_selected = selector.transform(X_test)

# Selected feature indices
selected_features = selector.get_support(indices=True)
print("Selected Features:", selected_features)
```

> The code about produces the output as follows:

Reviewer: There's a typo here -

```suggestion
The code above produces the output as follows:
```
